- [Instructor] Now we'll extend what we've learned
about webpages in Spring
and reveal how similar writing ReSTful web services
is with the Spring framework and especially Spring Boot.
An important thing to note here
is this may be the single most common use
of Spring Boot today
and that is used for writing microservices,
especially those based on rests.
With Spring, there's a specialized controller
for ReSTful web services.
In reality,
it's a stereotype of controller
that adds response body to each method
that exposes a request mapping.
Spring uses controllers in general,
for all ReSTful web service endpoints.
I really think of this as another incantation of MVC,
but in this case, our view is the JSON payload by default,
as opposed to an HTML document.
I like to think of this from this perspective,
because once you understand the paradigm,
it becomes very straightforward.
No matter if it's a webservice or a web page.
One cool aspect of response body with Spring
is that it does all of the marshaling,
an unmarshaling for you into a JSON object
or from JSON into a Java object.
I mentioned JSON was the default,
but you can convert this to XML or other content types
with appropriate marshaling on the configuration
of the application context.
Spring can even respond to the accepts header
if you need to support multiple content types
within your application,
as long as you have a marshal or an unmarshaler configured
in the application context.
So let's see how easy it is now
to write a ReSTful based webservice
using Spring and Spring Boot.